Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans. Programing language that has sets of instructions used to tell computers what to do.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans. The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets. It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE),
an interpreter/loader (java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.

What is IDE?
Ans. Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans. Eclipse, Intellij, Netbeans, Bluejay, Visual Studio etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans.  1. Editing the program using IDE or text file
      2. Compiling the source code – either thru IDE or JAVAC compiler
      3. Executing the byte code  JVM  interperts the bytecode for the OS

what is class?
Ans. “blueprints” - used to create objects, classes define object data types and methods.

What is object?
Ans. Object is an Instant of Class.Java object is a combination of data and procedures working on the available data.

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans. The main method is the entry point of an application.
Why main is static?
Ans. The  main() method is  static  in nature,  which  means that this method can be directly accessed/called, without having to instantiate or createan object of class .
Hence, main() method in every java program is declared static and it is automatically called to execute a Java program.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans. Object class
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans. The main difference between PATH and CLASSPATH is that  PATH is an environment variable which is used to locate JDK binaries like "java" or "javac" command used to run java program and compile java source file.
On the other hand, CLASSPATH, an environment variable is used by System or Application ClassLoader to locate and load compile Java bytecodes stored in the .
class file
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
what is Access Specifier?
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









